

As we all know being a software engineer is not an easy 
thing. You need to know a lot and constantly improve 
yourself. But, during my career I found what differ good 
and great software engineers, and here are 
recommendations on how to become one: 

1. Master one programming language in depth 
Take one programming language and go in-depth with 
it. Learn everything you can and be a master of it. Some 
good languages you can select today are Python, Java, 
C#, and Rust, . 

2. Learn Software Engineering concepts 
When you master a programming language, its syntax, 
semantics, and constructs, the next thing is to learn 
different software engineering concepts, such as: 
Software architecture 
Software design 
Design patterns 
Clean code 
SOLID, DRY, KISS, and YAGNI principles 

3. Learn the complete SDLC process 
Try to understand the complete software development 
process, from requirements to deployment. Learn about 
Agile methodologies, DevOps, and Quality assurance. 
And try to work on different projects, on more projects 
you work you will learn new stuff and grow. 

4. Be a product-minded engineer 
When working on your project, don't settle just with 
specs and jump to implement it. Think about other 
ideas and approach your product manager with them. 
Trv to understand the complete system, but also how 


learn intentionally, just before we need it and this will 
make the biggest impact. 
7. Work with someone more experienced 
The fastest way to progress in your career is to find a 
mentor. He can help you find your gaps and show you 
some new opportunities. A mentor can be found inside 
an organization or outside (check specialized services). 
8. Use good engineering practices 
Learn and follow good practices', such as: 
- Using version control 
Write your tests properly (check the test pyramid) 
Learn how to refactor 
Learn TDD 
- Code reviews 
DevOps mindset 
Also, learn your IDE very well, and all the important 
shortcuts you need. Debugger too. 
Check bonuses in the comments. 
#softwareengineering #softwaredeveloper 
#programming #career 

